foreign
chapter 8 of the fabric of reality let
me pick it up where David Gets in the
fabric of reality the real kicker of
what is to come in the beginning of
infinity you're right in the fabric of
reality about halfway through each other
right now quote the point is that
although all known life is based on
replicators what the phenomenon of life
is really about is knowledge
we can give a definition of adaptation
directly in terms of knowledge an entity
is adapted to its Niche if it embodies
knowledge that causes the niche to keep
that knowledge in existence now we are
getting closer to the reason why life is
fundamental life is about the physical
embodiment of knowledge and in chapter
six we came across a law of physics the
Turing principle which is also about the
physical embodiment of knowledge it says
that it is possible to embody the laws
of physics as they apply to every
physically possible environment in
programs for a virtual reality generator
genes are such programs not only that
but all other virtual reality programs
that physically exist or will ever exist
are direct or indirect effects of life
for example the virtual reality programs
that run on our computers and in our
brains are indirect effects of human
life so life is the means presumably a
necessary means by which the effect
referred to in the Turing principle have
been implemented in nature this is
encouraging but it is not quite
sufficient to establish that life is a
fun fundamental phenomenon for I have
not yet established that the Turing
principle itself has the status of a
fundamental law a skeptic might argue
that it does not it is a law about the
physical embodiment of knowledge and the
skeptic might take the view that
knowledge is a parochial anthropocentric
concept rather than a fundamental one
that is it is one of those things which
is significant to us because of what we
are animals whose ecological niche
depend on creating applying knowledge
but not significant in an absolute sense
to a koala bear whose ecological niche
depends on eucalyptus leaves eucalyptus
is significant to the knowledge wielding
ape Homo sapiens knowledge is
significant end quote now listen as the
top casts readers of the begin Infinity
they know what's coming on stealing
David's Thunder here but I've been
stealing Davis Thunder for the entire
series of topcasts I suppose before he
gets to the main point we know what's
coming we know that anyone who claims
that knowledge is not significant is
trying to prophesy the growth of
knowledge to say life is not significant
fundamentally to the universe to the
evolution of the universe it's trying to
predict what life will do an inherently
impossible thing in for two reasons one
we can't predict the way in which
Evolution will go on to change the
universe and we can't predict what
people will do or in other words we
can't predict the growth of knowledge
either evolutionary knowledge or
explanatory knowledge and so it doesn't
matter what the process is throughout
the Universe what people will do about
that thing at some point in the future
cannot be known to us now and so this is
the thunder this is the thunder I'm
stealing from David he's going to use
particular examples it's really
interesting it's interesting for me it's
interesting for someone who's a fan of
the work of David Deutsch to see how
even paying what I thought was close
attention to the book years ago I still
come across stuff like this and it's
breathtaking in the fact that people
today reading the beginning of infinity
are taken aback by the way in which the
ideas are so groundbreaking and yet as I
keep on saying here it is here it is in
the fabric of reality back in 1997.
these ideas being brought together these
ideas about the fundamental nature of
knowledge and of life in this particular
instance